The Joe Rogan experience.
Don, how did you, when, when did you, you, you started out was like UFC eight.
Your first fight, you know, the first new UFC I fight for.
Boxing and kickboxing before.
That. Right? No boxing. I did boxing. Um,
think I had eight fights and, um,
I think it was two and six or two, five and one, I don't know,
because I fought my first two's Don fry and I won
those.
And then I had an argument with my trainer and so
we split. And then,
so then I fought under Jr. Fry.
Why'd you change your name or there was my name growing up as junior to Jr.
And that's how I was in junior high and high school. And then,
um, you know,
when my dad and mom called me and then I think I changed my name
because of a contractual re you know.
You got some deal with the manager. Yeah. There's a lot of those sneaky deals.
Huh?
Yeah. But, um, that was more the trainer. And, you know,
I don't know if that was because they were really good guys. Uh, art,
mark Tori was my money guy who, you know, they, they,
the two murals Mike mutuals and his father Al brought me to tart
art Russell at ASU back in the late sixties and art.
Uh, he's a billionaire, you know? And so he was interested in, I mean,
he basically funds ASU wrestling. Oh really? Yeah. Oh, that's nice.
Out of his pocket. Yeah.
And he's done so much for him to wrestling in the U S I
mean, he's like the top dog because, um, he, uh,
he used to have what's called Sunkist wrestling team. And, uh,
so that was his baby and he steamrolled that. And,
um, then, like I said, uh,
the immunos brothers or Mike and his dad took me to art or
to give it a shot after he called, um,
jeez, the coach said Oakey state. Um,
Joe say to double, double check on me.
So did you start it out wrestling? Did you wrestle as a young boy? No.
Sir. When.
Did you start wrestling?
Uh, it was a freshman in high school.
And then when did you box?
Uh, when I got out of college.
Oh, so most of it was, you know, that's fairly late in life to box, right?
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. That's why I was
[inaudible].
So when did you hear about the UFC?
Um, I was a fireman, you know,
I guess did the boxing and then got out,
did certain doing odd jobs for, you know, a year,
year and a half. And then my wife,
at that time, we had couple of horses, you know,
and being a Kali dresser, you got a bit of an Eagle and yeah.
So that'll get what hell I could do that. So, uh,
stir going around with a farrier name, Stony new thing,
and then Stony got me interested. Then I, um,
got tired of that was really me good money, but you know,
for the time he was giving me five bucks a horse, you know, teach me, you know,
pull the shoes, um, shaped the shoe, you know, and all that good stuff. Well,
he, he did the technical work on the hooves. And then,
um, I said,
somebody told me about being a fireman about, you know,
working 10 days a month, you know, had a restaurant. So hell,
that's the job for me, you know, tending his month. I can do that. You're.
Doing the 24 hour shifts. We just stay.
There at the firehouse. Yeah. Yeah.
So I got on the phone called up all of the cities and see Arizona.
Nobody was hiring. So I called up Santa Fe, New Mexico.
They said, yeah, we're going to run a test.
And so I went over there and tested and passed the test and
then went to my buddy, Jerry Pegan,
Paul he's got me into wrestling. Um, when I was in high school,
come all your later, please.
There you go over there for you. Thank you, sir. Bring her up, man. And
so then I wouldn't see to Jerry's house in Santa Fe.
And I went through there.
I think it was like a six month or her more, um,
academy, you know, in the fire.
Department and.
Six months. Yeah. Wow. It was a hell of an academy. It really was.
And so from there you thought about fighting.
No, I had already fought, no, but I mean in UFC. Oh no. Um,
from there we were there a year, year and a half couldn't afford to live there,
you know, you know, in Santa Fe you're either real rich, real poor, you know,
this was 30 years ago. So I don't know how it is now, but, um,
probably similar probably like the whole country now, right now.
Though. Santa Fe, a lot of beautiful friends from there.
Beautiful. Yeah. You've never been, oh, you got.
To go. I don't even think I've been in New Mexico except driving through water.
Or drive through it.
I was a kid. I don't remember.
Yeah, he didn't, obviously you haven't gotten through, see, uh,
John Jones and now.
Jackson Winkeljohn I want to go down there and check out the gym now.
How come you suggest a busy man, Don Frye? Just a busy man.
So when you, when you first heard about the UFC,
so you were firefighter then or well.
Back to the, back to the, you know, like I said,
we were in Santa Fe for a year,
year and a half and then couldn't afford to live there.
And so I got on the phone and so,
you know, we still had horses and so pain farrier, so, oh, I can do that.
So I found Oklahoma horseshoe in school, in Oak city.
And so I moved my wife back home to my parents' house,
you know,
and I went to old lawnmowers at school for their 12 week program.
Oh wow. And so I did that.
And then when I came back to, uh,
Arizona Sierra Vista, um, hooked up with a guy named, um,
oh Jesus, um,
Tyler Basinger Tyler's of magician is a farrier,
just a magician. And he paid me $5, a horse,
you know, and fit me lunch. And, uh, and you know,
so I was learning how to shoe horses from him, you know,
doing the apprenticeship, start my own business.
I got on as a firefighter reserve,
you know, the place called fry, fire department, F R Y no.
Relation is the old man, uh,
had an outpost store outside of foreword. Chuka, you know,
150 years ago and also a whorehouse, you know.
This is like old school Western. Wow.
And so then I, then I had some time I worked at a, um,
psych facility to, you know, was a site facility, psychological.
Logical facility. What'd you do there? Like restrain patients? Yeah.
What's harder.
Horseshoeing or restraining patients.
Oh, where she, whenever I broke a kid's arm. So, you know, just the headlocks,
you know, they, they did a breakout where, you know,
20 or 30 of them run off and then you get to herd them back in and a
couple of them act out and one of the guys had the kid
restrained for,
you had him from behind and his arms pin cancer slammed his head into
his face. So I just walked up and did a headlock and we landed,
snapped his arm. Yeah. That can
kind of put a damper on things. Was.
That the end of your.
Restraining patients that it was in that career?
So how does it make its way to the UFC?
Do you remember when you found out about the UFC?
Yeah. And then, um, the thing that still a year or two before.
So this is like 92, something.
Like that. Yeah. And then, um, I started doing judo,
you know, because I needed, I needed something to do, you know,
uh, you know, you're 22, 24 years old. You,
you know, you used to be a college athlete, you know,
you still walk around with an erection. Right. I understand. And, um,
so I started doing judo and advanced very quickly in
that. And um,
so then I got on the busy fire department in 94
or something.
The Arizona. Yeah. Yeah. Shout out to Doug Stan hope.
Yeah. That's what I hear.
I met him one time at the airport. Yeah. He says,
you're a firefighter here used to be this. This was probably 15, 18 years ago.
Wow. And um,
yeah, port Ellen arena. So.
You were talking about when you first heard about the.
UFC. Yeah. At 92,
I got on with the busy fire and then we were sitting there watching
something on TV and saw Dan clipper, Dan Severn.
And, uh,
then he was doing some kind of bodyguard work for Robin looking
from, um, who's a radio guy in New York. So whoever's.
Howard stern or really.
No in his, in his great t-shirt. Yeah.
Everybody's a Susan Gray t-shirt. And so, uh, you know,
then we saw Dan fight and I called him. I was so, you know, I said,
Dan did Don fry. Remember me playing fireman,
but you know where shoer, you know, Kenny, she's tough.
Can you get me in on? And he says, yeah.
So he ended up getting me some fights,
probably about five or six fights, you know,
around the country and uh, you know, check still in the mail, you know?
Um, this is pre UFC. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, so you fought MMA before the UFC.
Oh, it was, it was warehouse fighting MMA it.
So right. We'll call it back then. No holds barred. Right.
So would you wear shoes? You do whatever you want. Was it bare knuckle?
Yeah. Yeah.
And your day, and even in the UFC eight, it was,
you were still allowed to fight bare knuckle. Yeah. Yeah.
But I wore gloves because I hit heart
and smart gloves.
Aren't made to protect your face for me to protect my hands.
Gloves in the UFC. It was a tank. Yeah. Smart, smart.
Move. He hits hard.
Yeah. Holy. I remember your fight with tank.
What a fight that was Mike.
And I, and they didn't make a top 10 of one round fight.
Oh,
I don't have no idea why it does well it's cause there's so many great fights.
It's arbitrary who makes top 10, but I think it should have been in there.
That was a classic. Nobody knows.
Nobody knows anything about UFC 100 and be a war. You know, I do.
And you were there. I was there. The new fans,
they should go back because that's the history of the sport catch new episodes
of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan express.